[Music]
good morning welcome to breakfast with
dan walker and sally nugent the headline
is for you at six o'clock this morning
a major step on the road out of
lockdowns restrictions in england are
eased up to six people or two households
can now meet outside
outdoor sports resume in england today
so if you're feeling brave that could
involve
an outdoor swim or a game of golf or
tennis the stay-at-home rule is ending
but social distancing remains in place
george floyd's death sparked protests
against racism around the world
today the trial begins of the police
officer accused of his murder
the huge container ship that's been
blocking the suez canal for almost a
week has reportedly been freed in the
early hours of this morning
good morning out of office for good four
in ten workers say they're happy at
working from home
but the chancellor warns employers must
open up for staff close to quitting
because of work from home pressures good
morning england
maintain their perfect start it's a
world cup qualifying captain harry kane
keeping them on course for qatar with a
goal
in their win over albania while ryan
fraser
salvages scotland a draw against israel
good morning it's a cloudy start for
many and a wet start for a few of us as
well but
in england and wales will brighten up
will be some sunshine
and it will be warm in scotland and
northern ireland it will also brighten
up
but we'll hang on to the rain in the
west with the risk of some flooding
i'll have all the details coming up
good morning it is me it's monday the
29th
of march top story for you this morning
two households or groups of up to six
people are now
able to meet outside in england again as
the stay at home curvy restriction comes
to an end
outdoor sport facilities including
tennis courts and golf courses are
reopening and organized outdoor sports
can resume
boris johnson says he's looking forward
to a great british summer of sport
but warn people to stick to the rules
our political correspondent chris mason
has more
ilkeston in derbyshire and it's just
gone
midnight the rules now mean outdoor
sport in
england is legal again and the cycle
club here are making the most of it with
a nocturnal pedal
give us a wave and a shout out
in england from today the stay-at-home
rule
is gone it means up to six people or two
households can meet outdoors
including in private gardens in scotland
the stay-at-home rule will change to
stay local
from the 2nd of april that's this friday
in northern ireland six people from two
households
will be able to meet in a private garden
from thursday
and in wales the stay local rule was
scrapped
on saturday in england golf courses
reopened this morning
and the hardy can plunge into an outdoor
swimming pool
but these baby steps back towards
normality
will be accompanied by a soundtrack of
caution
an infected person releases particles
into the air by coughing
talking or simply breathing the
government will repeatedly emphasize
meet-ups
must be outside and socially distanced
because the risk of transmission inside
where ventilation is poorer
is much much greater chris mason bbc
news
and we will be live in a lido liner
which one which one do you get for lido
leader okay i'll try that should we just
do the same all morning lido let's stick
with lido
in west london later which has reopened
this morning
now a single dose of the pfizer and
astrazeneca vaccines was effective at
stopping 62 percent of coronavirus
infections in care homes according to a
new study
a team at university college london
looked at data from 10 000 adults in
england with an average age of 86
the research also suggested those who
did catch the virus after vaccination
may be less infectious the huge
container ship that's been blocking the
sewers canal
for nearly a week has reportedly been
re-floated
a fleet of tugboats succeeded in
dislodging
the bow of the ever given just a few
hours ago it's not yet clear
if shipping can resume along one of the
world's most important
waterways uh that was actually that was
the um
question wasn't it on anton deck's
saturday night takeaway that one the
the person who was trying to win the ads
that was the name of that ship was the
one that won
all the prizes the ever given yeah she
didn't know it but she guessed it she
got it right
wow and we'll be getting the very latest
from our correspondent uh in suez
in about 10 minutes time live on the
program now the trial of the police
officer derek chauvin accused of killing
george floyd starts in the united states
today
mr floyd's death was captured on video
and sparked protests against racism
across the world libero de seco has more
a life memorialized by a community that
cannot forget the pain of what happened
here almost a year ago
is still visible this is where george
floyd
lay dying a policeman kneeling on his
neck for more than nine minutes
as mr floyd repeatedly said i can't
breathe today that former officer derek
chauvin goes on trial for george floyd's
death
he's charged with two counts of murder
and one count of manslaughter
at first minneapolis police said that mr
floyd had been resisting arrest
but the video seemed to tell a different
story
chauvin was arrested the images of
george floyd on the ground
begging for his life ripped open
america's unhealed wounds on race
and how black americans are policed
people took to the streets and cities
across this country
sparking the biggest protest movement
since the civil rights days
the events engulfed the white house and
reverberated across the world
forcing a global reckoning on racism
[Applause]
[Music]
for people in minneapolis the start of
the trial brings both hope
and trepidation this is not the first
you know
incidence of police brutality that has
ever has never seen justice so
i'm optimistic but also i don't get my
hopes up too high
i want justice to be served but i don't
know for sure if that will happen
and if it doesn't i just fear the
reactions and the kickback that might
happen
[Music]
when do we want it this is the first
time that a white police officer in this
state
will stand trial for the murder of a
black person
chauvin's lawyer will argue that this
trial is not about
race but for many it is about the value
of a black life
in america security across this city has
been stepped up
barricades and fencing surround the
court
on the eve of the trial a vigil with
george floyd's family
it shouldn't be too large it shouldn't
be too justice
it shouldn't be one for white america it
shouldn't be one for black america
we are one a moment to pause and reflect
on what might lie ahead
bbc news minneapolis well alebo joins us
now
from outside the courthouse in
minneapolis thank you very much for
being with us this morning so give us a
run through of exactly what we are
expecting over the next few hours
well at 9 00 am local time we are
expecting those opening arguments to
begin and that's when the lawyers from
both sides
will essentially set out their case and
for both of them
much of it we expect is going to center
around what the actual
cause of george floyd's death was for
the prosecution they will be wanting to
show
that it was derek chauvin's actions so
they will be showing lots of video
from the scene much of it that we
haven't seen before and
a lot of it we expect to be quite
graphic body cam footage
and also bystander footage too the
defense will be trying to show that it
was actually other factors that were at
play
ill health on the part of george floyd
and possibly issues such as drug use
they'll also want to show that derek
chauvin was just
following uh procedure and standard
training
for police here in this state now there
is a huge amount of
interest here this is the first criminal
trial that will be
uh live broadcast here in this state and
that is because the judge recognized the
public interest
and that because of coveted restrictions
people are unable to
go to the court or view it in the way
they might usually do
labor thank you very much for that and
that is a case that we'll be covering
on breakfast for you over the course of
the next few days dozens of people are
dead following an attack on the town of
palma in northern mozambique
seven were killed trying to escape a
siege on hotel where hundreds of others
both locals and foreigners were
reportedly
rescued the area has been under attack
by islamic militants since
wednesday many missing people including
foreign workers are yet to be accounted
for
you might already be familiar with the
story of 11 year old max roosey who
spent the past year sleeping in a tent
in his back garden in memory of two
family friends who passed away
last year look at him well last night
was max's 365 day sleeping outdoors
marking of course a full year since he
began his
challenge he has raised more than half
a million pounds for charity
so i've raised over half a million
pounds now
it's absolutely mad i just want to say
thank you for all the people who have
sponsored me
and all the people who did max's big
[Music]
camp
see the headlines as they happen and
watch bbc news live in the app and get
the full story with bbc dot co dot uk
forward slash news follow the story for
all the latest with bbc news